IN THE CIRCUIT COURT OF COOK COUNTY, ILLINOIS
COUTY DEPARTMENT, CHANCERY DIVISION
 
 
Erbil Yogurt, Inc.,
 
Plaintiff,
 
v.
 
Faraidoon Nanakaliy and Culture Food, Inc.,
 
Defendants.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Case No. 2023CH00364

 
MOTION TO DISMISS
        	Faraidoon Nanakaliy (“Faraidoon”) and Culture Food, Inc. (“Culture Food”) (collectively “Defendants”) move to dismiss Erbil Yogurt, Inc.’s (“Plaintiff”) Verified Complaint for Injunctive and Other Relief (“Complaint”)[1] pursuant to 735 ILCS 5/2-615 because Plaintiff has failed to allege sufficient facts to support any of its counts.
Legal Standard
A complaint that fails to state a cause of action for which relief may be granted is subject to dismissal. See 735 ILCS 5/2-615. Illinois is a fact pleading state, and the plaintiff must allege facts sufficient to place its claim within the scope of the cause of action claimed. Madonna v. Giacobbe, 190 Ill. App. 3d 859, 865-66 (2nd Dist. 1989). In deciding whether a pleading states a cause of action, all allegations set forth are construed in the light most favorable to the plaintiff, and all well-pleaded facts are taken as true. Oliveira v. Amoco Oil Co., 201 Ill. 2d 134, 147 (2002). Conclusory factual allegations, however, are not taken as true. People ex rel. Peters v. Murphy-Knight, 248 Ill. App. 3d 382, 386 (1st Dist. 1993); Small v. Sussman, 306 Ill. App. 3d 639, 646 (1st Dist. 1999); Weidner v. Midcon Corp., 328 Ill. App. 3d 1056, 1059 (5th Dist. 2002). Dismissal is appropriate when, even accepting plaintiff’s well-pleaded facts as true, the complaint fails to allege sufficient facts to state a cause of action upon which relief may be granted. Ziemba v. Mierzwa, 142 Ill. 2d. 42, 46-47 (1991). In the instant case, each of Plaintiff’s six counts fails to sufficiently state a cause of action and as such the complaint should be dismissed.
Discussion
1.     Count I of the Complaint fails to plead a cause of action because “Injunctive Relief” is not a recognized cause of action in Illinois. Therefore, Count I should be dismissed pursuant to Section 2-615.
 
In Illinois, a count must allege sufficient facts to bring a claim within a legally recognized cause of action. Tedrick v. Cmty. Res. Ctr., Inc., 235 Ill. 2d 155, 161 (2009). Count I in Plaintiff’s Complaint is for “Injunctive Relief – Against All Defendants.” Injunctive relief is not a recognized cause of action in Illinois, instead being a form of relief provided after a claimant succeeds on the merits of an underlying claim. See Town of Cicero v. Metro. Water Reclamation Dist., 976 N.E.2d 400, 415 (1st Dist. 2012). As such, “there must be a recognized cause of action underlying the request for injunctive relief and that the party seeking such relief must first prevail on the merits of that underlying cause of action.” Id. Here, Plaintiff pleads injunctive relief as Count I without any recognized cause of action underlying the count. As such, because injunctive relief is not, by itself, a recognized cause of action, and Plaintiff has not alleged any other recognized cause of action in Count I[2], this Court must dismiss Count I for failure to state a claim.

 
2.     Plaintiff has failed to plead a breach of contract claim against Defendants and Count II of its Complaint should therefore be dismissed pursuant to Section 2-615.
 
In Illinois, to state a claim for breach of contract, a plaintiff must allege sufficient facts regarding each of the following elements: “(1) the existence of a valid and enforceable contract; (2) performance by the plaintiff; (3) breach of the contract by the defendant; and (4) resultant injury to the plaintiff.” Gallagher Corp. v. Russ, 309 Ill. App. 3d 192, 199 (1st Dist. 1999). Here, Plaintiff has failed to state a claim regarding each of these elements.
First, Plaintiff has failed to provide sufficient facts to allege the existence of a valid and enforceable contract. The sub-elements required to allege a valid and enforceable contract include alleging: “competent parties, valid subject matter, legal consideration, mutuality of obligation and mutuality of agreement.” Harris v. Johnson, 218 Ill. App. 3d 588, 592 (2nd Dist. 1991). Here, in the claim itself, Plaintiff merely provides a conclusory statement that, “the Agreement entered into by the parties is an enforceable contract.” Compl. at ¶28. Further, in the section entitled “Allegations Common to All Counts,” Plaintiff does not add any significant details. Specifically, it alleges that, “On or about March 6, 20201, Erbil purchased all of the assets of Culture Foods pursuant to an Agreement dated March 6, 2021,” that “The agreement provided [Erbil] shall transfer all held shares/ownership in Culture Foods, Inc., together with $60,000 to [Defendants],  and that, “In exchange, ‘the Diary Manufacturer Business Operation as a going concern, as well as the Business Assets and Liabilities of said Dairy Manufacturer Business Operation, shall be fully transferred to Erbil Yogurt, Inc.” Compl. at ¶¶ 11-13. These allegations do not allege any facts to support that the parties to the contract were competent to enter the contract, or that there was a mutuality of agreement between the parties when signing the contract. As such, Plaintiff has failed to plead sufficient facts to allege a valid and enforceable contract.
Second, Plaintiff does not allege performance on its part. It alleges that per the contract it, “shall transfer all held shares/ownership in Culture Foods, Inc., together with $60,000 to Faridoon,” but does not provide any factual allegations or assertions that it actually performed as required. Compl. at ¶ 12. As such, it has not alleged performance.
Third, and most importantly, Plaintiff has not established facts to support that the Defendants breached the contract. Plaintiff asserts that, “Defendants sold its interest, business operation, and assets to Erbil Yogurt, Inc., which included the patent for Erbil Yogurt,” and that “Defendants breached the Agreement by its continued use of the name Erbil Yogurt.” Id. at ¶¶ 29-30. These conclusory statements are not nearly satisfactory to satisfy an allegation that Defendants breached the contract.
One must assume that Plaintiff’s use of the term “patent” was a scrivener’s error and it meant to say “trademark” because no other allegations or facts within the Complaint refer to a patent. Under this assumption, Plaintiff has not provided sufficient facts to support its allegation that a trademark was transferred under the Agreement because it has not alleged any facts to support that a protectable trademark existed prior to the Agreement. If it did not exist, it could not have been transferred under the Agreement and cannot be the basis of a breach of the Agreement. Specifically, the complaint does not indicate at what point the alleged trademark was created, if it was registered with the State of Illinois or United States Patent and Trademark Office, how it was used in commerce (if at all), or if it gained secondary meaning in the marketplace. Each of these are necessary factors to consider when determining if a protectable trademark exists, as discussed in more detail below in the discussion of trademark infringement. Simply, without factual support that a trademark existed prior to the alleged contract, it is not possible for that same trademark to be the basis of a breach of the contract.
Further, even if, arguendo, a contract existed and “Erbil Yogurt” was a protectable trademark prior to it being signed, Plaintiff has not provided factual support that a trademark would have been included in the Agreement. In fact, the Agreement suggests exactly the opposite. Section 4 of the Agreement lists Exhibit A as a “Specific List of All Business Assets of the Dairy Manufacturer Business Operation that will be transferred to Erbil Yogurt Inc.” Exh. 1 to Compl. at ¶ 4 (bolding added). When looking at Exhibit A, however, it is blank and no business assets are listed. Id. Further, Section 3 of the Agreement directly implies that intellectual property will not be transferred. Specifically, it states that, “. . . there are certain quantities of packaging materials that bear the business name or logo of ‘Culture Food Inc.’” and that “. . . these certain quantities of packaging materials may be utilized by Erbil Yogurt Inc . . . however, Erbil Yogurt Inc will take reasonable action to limit reference to the business name and logo of ‘Culture Food Inc.’” Id. at ¶ 3. Further, the only evidence of a potential trademark Plaintiff provides is related to a trademark application from August 10, 2021 which was five months after the alleged Agreement.  With no facts to support a trademark having existed, Exhibit A of the Agreement being blank, and Section 3 of the Agreement indicating intellectual property (including the name and logo of Culture Food Inc.) not being transferred, it is more than reasonable to conclude that other intellectual property existing at the time of the Agreement was not transferred either. Simply, Plaintiff cannot argue that the Contract provides for all intellectual property to be transferred while including a clause that Culture Food, Inc’s main intellectual property are not to be transferred. For each of these reasons. Plaintiff has not alleged sufficient facts to support its allegation that Defendants breached the Agreement.  
Finally, Plaintiff does not allege sufficient facts regarding its resultant injury from Defendants’ alleged breach of contract. Specifically, Plaintiff only alleges the conclusory allegation that “Erbil has been damaged by Defendants’ breach,” and that “Erbil has suffered damages as a proximate result of Defendants’ breach.” Compl. at ¶¶ 31-32. Nowhere does Plaintiff allege facts supporting any damages it has sustained and its prayer for relief does not even list the amount it is seeking. It has not alleged this element.
If any element is missing sufficient factual support, a dismissal pursuant to Section 2-615 is appropriate. Here, every element for breach of contract is missing sufficient factual support. As such, Count II should be dismissed. 
3.     Plaintiff has failed to plead trademark infringement against Defendants under both the Lanham Act and common law and therefore Counts III and IV of its Complaint should be dismissed pursuant to Section 2-615.
 
To state a cause of action for trademark infringement for an unregistered trademark under either the Lanham Act or common law, a Plaintiff must show that its mark is protectable and that the Defendant’s use of that mark is likely to cause confusion among consumers. See, e.g., Phoenix Entm't, LLC v. Rumsey, 829 F.3d 817, 822; Jim Mullen Charitable Found. v. World Ability Fed'n, NFP, 395 Ill. App. 3d 746, 753 (1st Dist. 2009). Here, Plaintiff does not even make an effort to allege facts sufficient to support its trademark infringement claims.
For something to be a trademark and receive trademark protection, it must be created, used in commerce (or registered with an intent to use in commerce), and must be distinctive. See 15 U.S.C. § 1127. To determine distinctiveness, potential trademarks are placed into four categories: generic, descriptive, suggestive, and arbitrary. Bliss Salon Day Spa v. Bliss World LLC, 268 F.3d 494, 496 (7th Cir. 2001). Importantly, descriptive terms require secondary meaning in the minds of consumers to be granted trademark protections. See, e.g., Kern v. WKQX Radio, 175 Ill. App. 3d 624, 633 (1st Dist. 1988).
Here, Plaintiff has not provided any facts that “Erbil Yogurt” is a trademark, (and does not even reference “Erbil Yogurt” as a trademark in its two trademark-centered claims). Instead, Plaintiff makes the conclusory allegation that, “Erbil is the rightful owner of ‘Erbil Yogurt’” and that “Defendant’s do not have the right to use in commerce. . . ‘Erbil Yogurt.’” Compl. at ¶¶ 34-35. Nowhere does Plaintiff provide sufficient facts that Erbil Yogurt is a protectable mark or that it owns rights to the alleged mark. A trademark cannot exist if it has not been used in commerce as a source identifier. See 15 U.S.C. § 1127. Plaintiff does not allege facts regarding when the mark was created, when it was first used in commerce, how it was used in commerce, what products or services it has been used to identify, if it is currently being used in commerce, or if anyone else has a claim to the mark.
Additionally, Plaintiff does not provide support or allegations that the phrase “Erbil Yogurt” is distinctive. For geographically descriptive terms such as Erbil Yogurt – where a product (yogurt) is modified by a geographic location known for a specific type of yogurt (erbil) – the United States Patent and Trademark Office provides that “geographic terms generally are descriptive and are not inherently distinctive.” United States Patent and Trademark Office Trademark Manual of Examining Procedure 1210.07(b). As such, to be afforded trademark protections, Erbil Yogurt would require secondary meaning before it could be protected as a trademark. Plaintiff has not alleged any facts to suggest consumers attach secondary meaning to the phrase “Erbil Yogurt” in relation to Plaintiff (or Defendants’) products. It is therefore not possible for Defendant to have infringed the mark “Erbil Yogurt” when Plaintiff has not alleged any facts whatsoever to support allegations that Erbil Yogurt is even protectable as a trademark in the first place.
Finally, Plaintiff has provided no facts supporting its allegation that, “Defendant’s actions have caused confusion mistake and deception.” Compl. at 38. The conclusory allegation cannot stand on its own and as such Plaintiff has not successfully alleged that Defendants’ use of the mark is likely to cause confusion. Therefore, because Plaintiff has not alleged facts to support that a protectable trademark exists, that it has rights to such a mark, or that Defendants’ actions are likely to cause confusion, Counts III and IV must be dismissed pursuant to Section 2-615.
4.     Plaintiff has failed to plead deceptive trade practices against Defendants and therefore Count V of its Complaint should be dismissed pursuant to Section 2-615.
 
To state a cause of action for deceptive trade practices, a plaintiff must allege sufficient facts regarding: (a) a deceptive act or practice by the defendant, (b) the defendant's intent that the plaintiff rely on the deception, (c) that the deception occurred in the course of conduct involving trade or commerce, (d) actual damage to the plaintiff, proximately caused by the deception. Here, Plaintiff has failed to allege or provide satisfactory supporting facts regarding multiple factors.
First, Plaintiff’s purported deceptive act is “passing off goods and services of Erbil Yogurt,” “a mark and trademark as under the Uniform Deceptive Trade Practices Act.” Compl. at ¶¶ 48-50.  This allegation of trademark infringement fails for all the same reasons discussed in Section 3, supra.
Additionally, for the remaining factors, Plaintiff only provides conclusory allegations, with little if any factual support. For example, Plaintiff merely alleges that “Defendants’ actions have cause confusion, mistake, or deception” and that “Defendants’ intend to cause confusion, mistake, and deception and has occurred in the course of conduct involving trade or commerce.” Compl. at ¶¶ 51-52. These allegations flatly conclusory, parroting the elements. There is no factual support behind these allegations, and therefore the factors have not been met. Additionally, like with the breach of contract claim, Plaintiff has not provided any evidence of actual damages besides the conclusory allegation that “Erbil continues to be damaged by Defendants ongoing use of ‘Erbil Yogurt.’” Compl. at ¶ 54.
Because Plaintiff has not successfully alleged the factors necessary to state a cause of action for deceptive trade practices, Count V must be dismissed under Section 2-615.
5.     Plaintiff has failed to plead a count of unjust enrichment against Defendants and Count VI of its Complaint should therefore be dismissed pursuant to Section 2-615.
 
To state a cause of action for unjust enrichment, a plaintiff must allege sufficient facts regarding “(1) an enrichment, (2) an impoverishment, (3) a relation between the enrichment and impoverishment, (4) the absence of justification and (5) the absence of a remedy provided by law” Sherman v. Ryan, 392 Ill. App. 3d 712, 734 (1st Dist. 2009). Here, Plaintiff has once again failed to successfully plead sufficient facts regarding multiple required factors.
At the outset, Plaintiff has not successfully pleaded that there was an enrichment. Plaintiff’s allegation is simply that, “Defendants have been unjustly enriched by their continued use of Erbil Yogurt in their business as they are collecting profits they are not entitled to.” Compl. at ¶ 56. This conclusory allegation fails for the same reasons the trademark infringement and breach of contract claims fail. Plaintiff has not alleged any facts to support that there was a trademark before the alleged Agreement, that the phrase “Erbil Yogurt” could even obtain trademark rights, or that the Agreement even included the transfer of any intellectual property in the first place. As such, Plaintiff’s conclusory allegation that Defendants are collecting profits they are not entitled to falls flat. Further, Plaintiff has not alleged facts to support any harm it has sustained by Plaintiffs’ alleged use of the phrase “Erbil Yogurt.” It has not alleged lost sales, goodwill, or any other real harm relating to Defendants’ alleged use of the phrase. Finally, Plaintiff pleads that it, “has no adequate remedy at law” while at the same time providing proposed remedies at law for its trademark infringement claims. See Compl. at ¶¶ 39, 46, 59.
For these reasons, because Plaintiff has failed to allege sufficient facts to support a claim for unjust enrichment, Count VI must be dismissed.
Conclusion
        	The Court should dismiss all Counts of the Complaint pursuant to Section 2-615.
Respectfully submitted,
 
Faraidoon Nanakaliy and Culture Food, Inc.
 
/s/ David K. Radkin________
David K. Radkin
Matthew A. Wood
Litico Law Group
3701 W. Algonquin Road, Suite 450
Rolling Meadows, Illinois 60008
(847) 307-5942
dkr@litico.law
maw@litico.law
Firm No. 61620
Attorneys for Faraidoon Nanakaliy and Culture Food, Inc.
 


[1] A copy of the Complaint with exhibits is attached as Exhibit A.
[2] While Count I includes references to trademark misappropriation and deceptive business practices, these references are in passing and without any factual support. Compl. at ¶ 24. Additionally, independent causes of action exist for both trademark infringement and deceptive business practices (Counts III, IV, and V), each requesting injunctive relief. This makes Count I duplicative of counts III, IV, and V, and as such Count I should be dismissed as duplicative. 

